## **BraTS2023AdultGlioma**

This project folder contains the configuration files, preprocessing, and visualization scripts for the
BraTS2023AdultGlioma dataset.

For more information, please refer to https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn51156910/wiki/.

Related papers:
- https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.02629.pdf,
- https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.17033.pdf.

Data need to be downloaded manually due to required registration. Download link:
https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn51156910/wiki/622351.

**Note:** When running the preprocessing scripts please make sure you have the following packages installed: argparse,
json, nibabel, numpy, pathlib, random, tqdm. Those packages are installed by default if atommic is installed.

### **Visualization**
An example notebook for visualizing the data is provided in the
[visualize.ipynb](visualize.ipynb). You just need to set the path where the
dataset is downloaded.

### **Preprocessing**
The preprocessing pipeline is implemented in the
[preprocess_dataset.sh](preprocess_dataset.sh) script, consisting of the
following steps:
1. Crop to the brain region, as there is a lot of background around the brain resulting is slower training.
Important note: the cropping is done only for the training set.
2. Normalize the images to zero mean and unit variance.
3. Updates headers and save to NIfTI format.
4. Split the dataset into training and validation sets.
5. Compute the probabilities for each segmentation class.

The preprocessing script can be run with the following command:
```bash
bash ./projects/SEG/BraTS2023AdultGlioma/preprocess_dataset.sh
```

### **Training/Testing**
For training a model, you just need to set up the data and export paths to the configuration file in
/projects/SEG/BraTS2023AdultGlioma/conf/train/ of the model you want to train. In `train_ds` and
`validation_ds` please set the `data_path` and the `segmentations_path`, which will be generated by the preprocessing
script. In `exp_manager` please set the `exp_dir` to the path where you want to save the model checkpoints and
tensorboard or wandb logs.

You can train a model with the following command:
`atommic run -c /projects/SEG/BraTS2023AdultGlioma/conf/train/{model}.yaml`

For testing a model, you just need to set up the data and export paths to the configuration file in
/projects/SEG/BraTS2023AdultGlioma/conf/test/ of the model you want to test. In `checkpoint`
(line 2) set the path the trained model checkpoint and in `test_ds` please set the `data_path`. In `exp_manager` please
set the `exp_dir` to the path where the predictions and logs will be saved.

You can test a model with the following command:
`atommic run -c /projects/SEG/BraTS2023AdultGlioma/conf/test/{model}.yaml`

**Note:** The default logger is tensorboard.
